WIP: Allow short usernames (#1501)
ubuntu/authd: docs/howto/configure-authd.md

> This provides configuration options for logging verbosity and UID/GID ranges.

Reviewer: It does more now. About time to make it more generic instead of mentioning everything that can be configured:

```suggestion
This file provides configuration options that control authd's behavior.
```

(ref::config-short-usernames)=
## Allow logging in with a shortened username

Identity providers report fully qualified usernames, such as
`user@example.com`. By default, this is also the name authd creates the user
with, so it is the name used for the home directory, the user private group and

> any local group membership.

Reviewer: Might be nitpicking (sorry), but I don't like the term "fully qualified username" very much. It is not clear what "fully qualified" means for a username, and it sounds like jargon borrowed from fully qualified domain names.

Could we use "username including its domain" here and "full username" when we refer to it later in the doc?

```suggestion
Identity providers report usernames that include a domain, such as
`user@example.com`. By default, this is also the name authd creates the user
with, so it is the name used for the home directory, the user private group and
any local group membership.
```

Author: I don't think it's nitpicking. FQDN makes sense to me (but I did work extensively with SSSD, AD, and so on, so that's expected), but I agree that it's probably not that straightforward for users. I've updated every mention of "fully qualified usernames" to "full usernames".

Reviewer: thanks :)

To let users log in with just `user`, set `use_short_usernames` in
`/etc/authd/authd.yaml`:

```{code-block} yaml
:caption: /etc/authd/authd.yaml
use_short_usernames: true
```

Then restart the service:

```shell
sudo systemctl restart authd
```

With this enabled, users can log in with either form, because authd adds the
domain back before contacting the broker. The fully qualified username is still
required the first time a user logs in, since authd cannot resolve the domain

> before it knows the user.

Reviewer: > The fully qualified username is still required the first time a user logs in, since authd cannot resolve the domain before it knows the user.

This is not necessarily true. I remember we discussed the idea before to also allow first login with the short username. With the device code flow that should work fine: The user logs in to their user account at the IdP, we retrieve the token with the full username and check that the part before the `@` matches the short username entered by the user. 

However, the Entra auth flow wouldn't work, because the Entra auth API uses the username as the account identifier (right, @nooreldeenmansour?). So I agree with the approach to require the full username for first login. I would rephrase the paragraph though, to avoid stating that it's required to resolve the domain:

```suggestion
When this option is enabled, a new user must still use their full username for
the first login. After the first successful authentication, authd remembers the
full username reported by the identity provider and stores the local account
under the short username. On later logins, authd accepts either form and maps
both names to the same account before contacting the broker.
```

Reviewer 2: > However, the Entra auth flow wouldn't work, because the Entra auth API uses the username as the account identifier (right, @nooreldeenmansour?). So I agree with the approach to require the full username for first login. 

Yes, correct. The entra+mfa login flow requires the UPN/FQDN
